This section will set the tone for the rest of the course as the personal branding aspect will be where
we find our inspiration for the look feel and message we send to our potential clients.
The copywriting we create during this process can be used later on when we craft our portfolios and
Web site.
The logo created can be used on all materials we produce including the invoices we'll be creating together
as well.
Branding is at the heart of any freelancers journey and that's why after we set our target markets and
our goals this is the next natural essential step.
First of all what exactly is the brand and how to brands differ for freelancers and individuals and
for larger corporations our personal brand consists not only of the logo and symbol but the freelancers
personal story experience history personality unique selling point color palettes stationery look apparel
digital assets portfolio styling and Web site presentation.
Whoop.
That's a lot.
But your brand touches every part of your business.
Think of the branding as an extension of yourself and your skill set.
This means it may be more than just visuals.
It can also be how you write your bio the words and personality you bring and also how you present your
work and the colors you choose strong personal brands exude consistency in everything they produce.
Even without a logo you know just by looking at the copywriting styling personality who it might be
your personal brand should be unforgettable remember people looking at your portfolio website will be
looking at many more your branding can play up port and part of making you look polished and professional
and helping you land the right clients with matching goals.
I want to review the characteristics I see of strong personal branding.
First of all they have personality.
They echo the freelancers main talents and skill sets by presenting the freelancers unique style on
full display.
You want to attract clients but you also want to find clients that will match with your style not only
to benefit the client's needs but to find projects that are fulfilling and rewarding for you as a freelancer.
They are adaptable.
Their logos and logo marks can be used on all things and maintain the same quality.
This includes small social media images Fava Khan's business cards and even email signatures.
They make memorable experiences they leave impressions on the viewer or potential client not only in
how they show their work but how they craft their stories and explain their projects they show a high
level of professionalism.
This means great grammar spelling and sentence construction and all text shown their photos and photo
rails resolutions are cropped properly.
They present themselves in a professional manner and even in casual communications like email and texting
they nail their target market.
They appeal and define their target markets the way they build their logo down to their color selections
they know and understand how to appeal their target clients and their viewers.
Now they reviewed some fantastic examples of personal branding for freelancers.
I now want to review the process of the personal branding timeline.
It could be broken down into four main stages crafting the story creating the logo creating brand assets
and finally putting together your digital presence we're going to work through a lot of these steps
together in this course.
You can download these documents you can take a detailed look at some of the natural stages and the
personal branding process.
You do not have to complete them all.
Not all freelancers are going to need a T-shirt or certain social media graphics but think of this as
a general guide and it thinks about all aspects of the brand.
I'll see you in the next lesson as we work on the first section which will be crafting our story.